Documentation for the kernel API (#46754)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/kernel_doc/writing_kernels.md

<!--Copyright 2026 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Writing kernels

This guide explains how to write kernels that go beyond a stateless `forward` replacement. It covers two capabilities the extended `KernelConfig` API supports:

1. **Parameter transformation** — the kernel expects weights in a different layout than the original model (for example, renamed or merged parameters).

> 2. **Module fusion** — the kernel replaces multiple adjacent modules with a single fused implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Parameter transformation — the kernel expects weights in a different layout than the original model (for example, renamed or merged parameters).
2. Module fusion — the kernel replaces multiple adjacent modules with a single fused implementation.
```

> For basic kernels (stateless `forward` replacements with no parameter changes), see the [kernels library](https://github.com/huggingface/kernels) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For basic kernels (stateless `forward` replacements with no parameter changes), see the [kernels](https://github.com/huggingface/kernels) library documentation.
```

## Two-class pattern

Any kernel that carries its own parameters follows a two-class pattern.

> - `KernelName`: contains only the `forward` pass. The `kernels` library uses this class to kernelize the model. It must be stateless as the library does not allow stateful kernel classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `KernelName`: contains only the `forward` pass. The `kernels` library uses this class to kernelize the model because it doesn't allow stateful kernel classes.
```

> - `KernelNameLayout`: an `nn.Module` that holds the parameters and monkey-patches the original module before the checkpoint is loaded. At runtime, `kernelize` replaces its `forward` with `KernelName`'s `forward`. You do not need to define `forward`, Transformers injects one automatically with the same signature as `KernelName.forward`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `KernelNameLayout`: an `nn.Module` that holds the parameters and monkey-patches the original module before the checkpoint is loaded. At runtime, `kernelize` replaces its `forward` with the `forward` from `KernelName`. You don't need to define `forward`. Transformers injects one automatically with the same signature as `KernelName.forward`.
```

> **The naming convention is strict: the layout class must be named `{KernelName}Layout` and defined in the same module as `KernelName`. Transformers discovers it automatically.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]
> The naming convention is strict. The layout class must be named `{KernelName}Layout` and defined in the same module as `KernelName`.
```

## Parameter transformation

Use this pattern when the kernel expects weights under different names or in a different shape than the original model checkpoint.

> The `KernelNameLayout` class has the **same `__init__` signature as the module it replaces** and declares a `conversion_mapping` class attribute that tells Transformers how to remap checkpoint keys to the new parameter names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `KernelNameLayout` class has the same `__init__` signature as the module it replaces and declares a `conversion_mapping` class attribute that tells Transformers how to remap checkpoint keys to the new parameter names (see [Dynamic weight loading](../weightconverter) for more details).
```

```python
import torch
import torch.nn as nn

class CustomRMSNormLayout(nn.Module):
    conversion_mapping = [...]  # rules that remap checkpoint keys to the new parameter names

    def __init__(self, hidden_size: int, eps: float = 1e-6):
        super().__init__()
        self.scale = nn.Parameter(torch.ones(hidden_size))
        self.variance_epsilon = eps

class CustomRMSNorm(nn.Module):
    def forward(self, hidden_states: torch.Tensor) -> torch.Tensor:
        input_dtype = hidden_states.dtype
        hidden_states = hidden_states.to(torch.float32)
        variance = hidden_states.pow(2).mean(-1, keepdim=True)
        hidden_states = hidden_states * torch.rsqrt(variance + self.variance_epsilon)
        return self.scale * hidden_states.to(input_dtype)

class layers:
    CustomRMSNorm = CustomRMSNorm
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `layers` class is required by the `kernels` library to expose the kernel entry point.

> Load this kernel by passing the repo and class name to `KernelConfig`. The key is the **original** module class name from the model; the value points to the `KernelName` class (not the Layout) in the repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Load this kernel by passing the repo and class name to [`KernelConfig`]. The key is the original module class name from the model. The value points to the `KernelName` class (not the `Layout`) in the repo.
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, KernelConfig

kernel_config = KernelConfig({"RMSNorm": "owner/my-kernel:CustomRMSNorm"})
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    "Qwen/Qwen3-0.6B",
    use_kernels=True,
    kernel_config=kernel_config,
    device_map="cuda",
)
```

When the model loads, Transformers:
1. Loads `CustomRMSNorm` from the repo and looks for `CustomRMSNormLayout` in the same module.
2. Monkey-patches every `RMSNorm` in the model with `CustomRMSNormLayout`.
3. Remaps checkpoint weights using `conversion_mapping` so they load into the new parameter names.
4. Calls `kernelize`, which replaces `CustomRMSNormLayout.forward` with `CustomRMSNorm.forward`.

## Module fusion

> Use this pattern when a kernel replaces multiple adjacent modules with a single fused implementation. Because the fused module combines parameters from several original modules, the `KernelNameLayout.__init__` receives the **instantiated child modules** rather than their constructor arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this pattern when a kernel replaces multiple adjacent modules with a single fused implementation. Because the fused module combines parameters from several original modules, the `KernelNameLayout.__init__` receives the instantiated child modules rather than their constructor arguments.
```

        self.gate_up_proj = nn.Linear(
            mlp.gate_proj.in_features,
            mlp.gate_proj.out_features + mlp.up_proj.out_features,
            bias=mlp.gate_proj.bias is not None,
            device=mlp.gate_proj.weight.device,
            dtype=mlp.gate_proj.weight.dtype,
        )
        self.down_proj = nn.Linear(
            mlp.down_proj.in_features,
            mlp.down_proj.out_features,
            bias=mlp.down_proj.bias is not None,
            device=mlp.down_proj.weight.device,
            dtype=mlp.down_proj.weight.dtype,
        )
        self.act_fn = mlp.act_fn

class RMSNormMLP(nn.Module):
    def forward(self, hidden_states: torch.Tensor) -> torch.Tensor:
        input_dtype = hidden_states.dtype
        hidden_states = hidden_states.to(torch.float32)
        variance = hidden_states.pow(2).mean(-1, keepdim=True)
        hidden_states = hidden_states * torch.rsqrt(variance + self.variance_epsilon)
        hidden_states = self.scale * hidden_states.to(input_dtype)
        gate, up = self.gate_up_proj(hidden_states).chunk(2, dim=-1)
        return self.down_proj(self.act_fn(gate) * up)

class layers:
    RMSNormMLP = RMSNormMLP
```

> To fuse modules, pass a **tuple of `(class_name, path_pattern)` pairs** as the key in `KernelConfig` instead of a plain string. All patterns must share the same parent module (Transformers fuses the children in that parent). The `*` wildcard matches any single path segment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fuse modules, pass a tuple of `(class_name, path_pattern)` pairs as the key in `KernelConfig` instead of a plain string. All patterns must share the same parent module (Transformers fuses the children in that parent). The `*` wildcard matches any single path segment.
```

- `KernelName`: contains only the `forward` pass. The `kernels` library uses this class to kernelize the model because it does not allow stateful kernel classes.
- `KernelNameLayout`: an `nn.Module` that holds the parameters and monkey-patches the original module before the checkpoint is loaded. At runtime, `kernelize` replaces its `forward` with the `forward` from `KernelName`'. You do not need to define `forward`. Transformers injects one automatically with the same signature as `KernelName.forward`.

> [!IMPORTANT]

The naming convention is strict. The layout class must be named `{KernelName}Layout` and defined in the same module as `KernelName`.

## Parameter transformation

Use this pattern when the kernel expects weights under different names or in a different shape than the original model checkpoint.

The `KernelNameLayout` class has the same `__init__` signature as the module it replaces and declares a `conversion_mapping` class attribute that tells Transformers how to remap checkpoint keys to the new parameter names (see [Dynamic weight loading](../weightconverter) for more details).

```python
import torch
import torch.nn as nn

class CustomRMSNormLayout(nn.Module):

>     conversion_mapping = [...]  # rules that remap checkpoint keys to the new parameter names

Reviewer 2: Imo we should note that this is transformers specific and kernels doesn't ship this dependency (or even as optional one) so this needs some guarding https://huggingface.co/kernels/AntonV/dummy-rmsnorm-mlp-with-transformations-and-init/blob/v0/build/torch-cuda/layers.py

    def __init__(self, hidden_size: int, eps: float = 1e-6):
        super().__init__()
        self.scale = nn.Parameter(torch.ones(hidden_size))
        self.variance_epsilon = eps

class CustomRMSNorm(nn.Module):
    def forward(self, hidden_states: torch.Tensor) -> torch.Tensor:
        input_dtype = hidden_states.dtype
        hidden_states = hidden_states.to(torch.float32)
        variance = hidden_states.pow(2).mean(-1, keepdim=True)
        hidden_states = hidden_states * torch.rsqrt(variance + self.variance_epsilon)
        return self.scale * hidden_states.to(input_dtype)

> class layers:

Reviewer 2: imo this is dirty, we should advice to use the proper structure of layers.py

    CustomRMSNorm = CustomRMSNorm
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `layers` class is required by the `kernels` library to expose the kernel entry point.

Load this kernel by passing the repo and class name to [`KernelConfig`]. The key is the original module class name from the model. The value points to the `KernelName` class (not the `Layout`) in the repo.

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, KernelConfig

> kernel_config = KernelConfig({"RMSNorm": "owner/my-kernel:CustomRMSNorm"})

Reviewer 2: this wont work because it's a remote kernel, you would need to pass some way of trusting it
```suggestion
kernel_config = KernelConfig({"RMSNorm": ("owner/my-kernel:CustomRMSNorm", {"trust_remote_code": True})})
```
Also note that it needs a version or revision; if there is not the default version 1 then it will also crash
